For dust continuum radiative transfer RADMC-3D requires dust opacities, which
are typically given in tabulated form as a function of wavelength (one line per
wavelength point). For each wavelength point the absorption opacity (kappa_abs
in units of cm^2/gram-of-dust) and the scattering opacity (kappa_scat in units
of cm^2/gram-of-dust) is given, and perhaps also some information about the
scattering phase function.

Some of these opacity tables can be downloaded directly from the web, but
usually the web databases give merely the "optical constants" of the
material. To convert these into opacity tables requires some more software.
Things are explained more deeply in the sub-directories.


METHOD 1
--------

This RADMC-3D package provides some wrappers around the BHMIE code from the
Bohren & Huffmann book, a fortran version of which was written by Bruce Draine,
which is included here with his permission. The code is provided in fortran and
in python form:

  bohrenhuffman_fortran/
  bohrenhuffman_python/

The fortran version is, of course, much faster than the Python version.
Typically we use the optical constants from the Jena database:

  https://www.astro.uni-jena.de/Laboratory/Database/databases.html

These directories have python scripts to create and to plot the opacities.


METHOD 2
--------

An alternative to the Bohren & Huffman code would be a nifty tool by Carsten
Dominik called "optool", which is based on the DIANA OpacityTool written by
Michiel Min, including some earlier work by Joop Hovenier. You can obtain the
code from github:

  git clone https://github.com/cdominik/optool.git

This code includes, in addition to Mie, also more sophisticated models such as
the DHS (distribution of hollow spheres) model (Min, Hovenier & de Koter, 2005,
A&A 432, 909), and can treat porosity and ice mantels.  The "optool" code has a
"-radmc" option to generate RADMC-3D compatible opacity files directly. We
therefore highly recommend its use, also because it produces opacities that are
compatible with the DIANA project (https://dianaproject.wp.st-andrews.ac.uk).


2020-09-17
